.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt PRIDE 6
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm pride
.Nd shows pride flags in the terminal
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl hlv
.Op Fl s Op Ar size
.Op Ar flag
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
displays pride flags in the terminal using ANSI truecolor sequences.
.Ss OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl h , Fl -help
Shows a brief help text.
.It Fl l , Fl -list
Shows a list of available pride flags.
.It Fl s , Fl -size Op Ar size
Scales the flag to the given size: no value or 'small' will produce the minimum size; one number sets the width; and two numbers separated by 'x' sets width and height respectively.
.It Fl v , Fl -version
Shows version information.
.It Ar flag
The name of the flag to display. Defaults to 'rainbow'.
.El
.Sh FLAGS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Ic agender
.It Ic aromantic, aro
.It Ic aroace, aromantic-asexual
The aromantic-asexual pride flag by @aroaesflags@tumblr.com.
.Pp
VARIANTS
.Bl -tag -width Ds -compact
.It Ic halves, side-by-side, sbs
.El
.It Ic bigender
.It Ic bisexual, bi
The bisexual pride flag designed by Michael Page in 1998.
.It Ic demiboy
.It Ic demigender
.It Ic demigirl
.It Ic demiromantic
.It Ic demisexual
.It Ic gay, mlm
The gay men pride flag designed by @gayflagblog@tumblr.com in 2019.
.It Ic genderfluid
.It Ic gender-nonconforming, gendernonconforming, gnc
.It Ic genderqueer
.It Ic gendervoid
.It Ic lesbian, wlw
The 5-stripe lesbian pride flag designed by Emily Gwen in 2018.
.Pp
VARIANTS
.Bl -tag -width Ds -compact
.It Ic 7-color
The 7-stripe lesbian pride flag designed by Emily Gwen in 2018.
.El
.It Ic multisexual, m-spec, mspec
.It Ic multigender
.It Ic neutrois
.It Ic nonbinary, nb
The nonbinary pride flag designed by Kyle Rowan in 2014.
.It Ic pansexual, pan
The pansexual pride flag designed by Jasper V circa 2010.
.It Ic polysexual
.It Ic progress
The progress rainbow pride flag designed by Daniel Quasar in 2018.
.It Ic rainbow, pride
The 1979 6-stripe revision of Gilbert Baker's rainbow pride flag.
.Pp
VARIANTS
.Bl -tag -width Ds -compact
.It Ic 8-color, gilbert-baker, sex-and-magic
Gilbert Baker's original 8-stripe rainbow pride flag from 1978.
.It Ic philadelphia
The rainbow flag designed for 2017 Philadelphia Pride.
.It Ic progress
.El
.It Ic transgender, trans
The transgender pride flag designed by Monica Helms in 1999.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It 1
Unmatched
.Ar flag
name.
.It 2
Failed to parse
.Ar size .
.It 3
The provided
.Ar size
is too small to render.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
Create a full-width banner flag using tput:
.Pp
.Dl $ pride -s `tput cols`
.Pp
.Sh AUTHORS
.An -nosplit
.An Valerie Wolfe Aq Mt sleeplessval@gmail.com
